python -m venv env && env\Scripts\activate && pip install flask






1. Install All Required Dependencies
Python and its dependencies:
Install Python: If you haven't already installed Python, download the latest Python 3.x version from the official Python website. Make sure to check the box that says Add Python 3.x to PATH during installation to ensure Python is accessible from the Command Prompt.

Verify Python Installation: Open a command prompt or PowerShell window and type python --version and pip --version to verify that both are correctly installed.

Set Up a Virtual Environment (Optional but recommended):

Navigate to the folder where you want to set up your Flask project.
Run python -m venv env to create a virtual environment named env.
To activate the virtual environment, run:
Command Prompt: .\env\Scripts\activate
PowerShell: .\env\Scripts\Activate.ps1
Your prompt should change to indicate that you are now operating within the 'env' virtual environment.
2. Install and Configure Web Server
Install Flask: With your virtual environment activated, install Flask by running pip install flask.

Prepare Your Application:

Place your Flask application file (typically named app.py) in your project folder.
If your application uses a database, ensure you have the necessary database drivers installed via pip (e.g., for MySQL, use pip install flask-mysql).
3. Start the Web Server
Environment Variable: Set the FLASK_APP environment variable to tell Flask where your application is:

Command Prompt: set FLASK_APP=app.py
PowerShell: $env:FLASK_APP = "app.py"
Run Flask Application:

Start your Flask application with: flask run --host=0.0.0.0
This command tells Flask to run your application and make it accessible on your network at port 5000.
4. Test Your Application
Access Your Application: Open a web browser and navigate to http://localhost:5000 to view your application's home page. Replace localhost with your machine's IP address if accessing from a different device on the same network.
Troubleshooting Tips:
If you encounter any permission issues on Windows, especially related to executing scripts, you might need to adjust your PowerShell script execution policy. You can do this by running PowerShell as Administrator and executing Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned.
Make sure your Windows firewall or any other installed security software is configured to allow traffic on port 5000.
This guide should help you get a basic Flask application up and running on a Windows system. For more complex setups or troubleshooting, the Flask and Python documentation are excellent resources.